README.md, before:

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](http://doctoc.herokuapp.com/)*

- [finance-scraper](#finance-scraper)
  - [Goal](#goal)
  - [Design](#design)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Instructions](#instructions)
  - [Developing](#developing)
  - [How did I do it?](#how-did-i-do-it)
    - [Manual Process](#manual-process)
    - [Automation](#automation)
      - [Selenium](#selenium)
      - [Requests](#requests)
        - [Chrome Dev Tools](#chrome-dev-tools)
        - [Chrome Net Internals](#chrome-net-internals)
        - [Charles](#charles)
      - [Cookie](#cookie)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# finance-scraper

## Goal
Grab all the campaign contributions from DC 2014 Council At Large campaigns
and plop it into a CSV.

## Design
Docker FTW.
Modeled after [Flynn](https://github.com/flynn) apps (do one thing and be
clean about it).

## Setup
This app requires [Docker](http://www.docker.com/).

I have found the best way to get it going on a Mac is
[dvm](https://github.com/fnichol/dvm#-tldr-for-mac-users)

## Instructions
All environment options are options, the defaults are given.


```
$ docker run  \
    -e FROM_DATE=01/01/2014 \
    -e TO_DATE=01/01/9999 \ # you can use future dates and it won't break
    -e REPORT_TYPE=con \ # either con for contributions or exp for expenditures
    techforelissa/finance-scraper
    > finance.csv
```

If you don't want me shoving Docker down your throat, then take a look
at `./Dockerfile`, I am sure you can figure out how to run it. It isn't too
complicated.

## Developing
You shouldn't have to do this since the docker image is pushed to
https://hub.docker.com/ whenever it is uploaded to Github. But if you want
to build it yourself for testing:

```shell
$ docker build -t techforelissa/finance-scraper .
```

To update the TOC at the top of the `README.md`:

```shell
$ npm install -g doctoc
$ doctoc README.md
```

## How did I do it?

### Manual Process
1. Go to
   [www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download.asp](http://www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download.asp)
   ![Screenshot of unfilled in serv/download.asp](http://f.cl.ly/items/3J2k2O05223Y1K2T0C43/District%20of%20Columbia%20%20Office%20of%20Campaign%20Finance%20%20Contribution%20%20%20Expenditure%20Search.png)
2. Fill in `From Date`, `To Date`, and `Payment Type`.
   ![Screenshot of filled in serv/download.asp](http://f.cl.ly/items/0T3N0O1I1W0A1t2W1t3N/District%20of%20Columbia%20%20Office%20of%20Campaign%20Finance%20%20Contribution%20%20%20Expenditure%20Search%20filled%20in.png)
3. Click `Submit` and it sends a `POST` to
   [www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download.asp](http://www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download.asp)
   and displays the entered form.
   ![Screenshot of submitted form](http://f.cl.ly/items/0Z3k1P2W0l1G2P080o2K/District%20of%20Columbia%20%20Office%20of%20Campaign%20Finance%20%20Contribution%20%20%20Expenditure%20Search%20submitted.png)
4. Click `Click here to download the CSV File` and it sends a `POST` to
   [www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download_conexp.asp](http://www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download_conexp.asp)
5. Returns `POST` with CSV text.

### Automation
#### Selenium
At first I tried using
[Selenium with Python](http://selenium-python.readthedocs.org) to fill in
the forms and click the buttons. This will actually run a real(ish) browser
and execute all the the JS and simulate user input. This worked, but
it couldn't really handle the returned CSV text from step 5. In a browser
this opens in a new window and downloads to your computer, but the
[PhantomJS driver for Selenium and Python](http://www.realpython.com/blog/python/headless-selenium-testing-with-python-and-phantomjs/)
wasn't really working for that new window. I might have been able to get
it to work eventually, but it prompted me to search for a different approach.

#### Requests
I then started experimenting with
[Requests for Python](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest) to just
call the to just make the actual HTTP calls, instead of pretending to be a
human and filling in the form. This was 1) faster 2) less verbose 3) easier
to understand.

##### Chrome Dev Tools
I fired up my Chrome Dev Tools and looked at what requests
were being made. So I tried to figure out in step 4, what request was actually being sent,
so that I could replay it programatically. However, since that opened
in a new window, the Dev Tools didn't save the request.
![GIF of clicking on download button and it downloading in chrome](http://zippy.gfycat.com/PinkAccomplishedBuffalo.gif)
It [isn't possible](http://stackoverflow.com/a/13747562) with chrome
to open a new window with Dev Tools already open.

##### Chrome Net Internals
I then tried [chrome://net-internals/#events](chrome://net-internals/#events)
to see the actual HTTP request being processed. I could see it was sending
a `POST` to`/serv/download_conexp.asp`
and the returned CSV. However it didn't show the `POST` data or the
cookies.
![chrome net internals events showing POST](http://f.cl.ly/items/050P46040W3o2t30431M/Screen%20Shot%202014-06-15%20at%2012.54.33%20PM.png)

##### Charles
For that I found [Charles](http://www.charlesproxy.com/)
(`brew cask install charles`) which provides a HTTP proxy to run your web
traffic through and then you can inspect every request.

#### Cookie
I checked the `POST` headers for the request and tried making it myself.
I got a response of

```html
    <script language="javascript">
        alert("Your Session is expired. Please try again");
        opener.location.href="/serv/download.asp";
        window.close();
    </script>
```

I found that it was setting a cookie when I requested
`/serv/download.asp`. I first tried it with a cookie I got  from the browser
and IT WORKED! I got back the CSV.

So I began using
[Requests Sessions](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/user/advanced/#session-objects)
to first `GET` at `/serv/download.asp` to get a session cookie and then
`POST` to `/serv/download_conexp.asp` with that cookie. That didn't work,
I got the `Your Session is expired. Please try again` response.
So then I tried doing step 3, sending a `POST` to `/serv/download.asp` and then
the identical post to `/serve/download_conexp.asp`, thinking maybe the server
checked to see if I submitted the form before letting me download. It worked!
However the next day when I tried again I go the
`Your Session is expired. Please try again`. Very weird.

Commit message:

Add more specific instructions on how to use docker image

README.md, after:

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](http://doctoc.herokuapp.com/)*

- [finance-scraper](#finance-scraper)
  - [Goal](#goal)
  - [Design](#design)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Instructions](#instructions)
  - [Developing](#developing)
  - [How did I do it?](#how-did-i-do-it)
    - [Manual Process](#manual-process)
    - [Automation](#automation)
      - [Selenium](#selenium)
      - [Requests](#requests)
        - [Chrome Dev Tools](#chrome-dev-tools)
        - [Chrome Net Internals](#chrome-net-internals)
        - [Charles](#charles)
      - [Cookie](#cookie)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# finance-scraper

## Goal
Grab all the campaign contributions from DC 2014 Council At Large campaigns
and plop it into a CSV.

## Design
Docker FTW.
Modeled after [Flynn](https://github.com/flynn) apps (do one thing and be
clean about it).

## Setup
This app requires [Docker](http://www.docker.com/).

I have found the best way to get it going on a Mac is
[dvm](https://github.com/fnichol/dvm#-tldr-for-mac-users)

## Instructions
The Docker image is created after after every git push to the master branch
on GitHub. So you don't actually need to clone this repo in order to run the
code, docker will pull it off of the hub.

All environment options are options, the defaults are given.

```
$ docker run  \
    -e FROM_DATE=01/01/2014 \
    -e TO_DATE=01/01/9999 \ # you can use future dates and it won't break
    -e REPORT_TYPE=con \ # either con for contributions or exp for expenditures
    techforelissa/finance-scraper
    > finance.csv
```

If you don't want me shoving Docker down your throat, then take a look
at `./Dockerfile`, I am sure you can figure out how to run it. It isn't too
complicated.

## Developing
You shouldn't have to do this since the docker image is pushed to
https://hub.docker.com/ whenever it is uploaded to Github. But if you want
to build it yourself for testing:

```shell
$ docker build -t techforelissa/finance-scraper .
```

To update the TOC at the top of the `README.md`:

```shell
$ npm install -g doctoc
$ doctoc README.md
```

## How did I do it?

### Manual Process
1. Go to
   [www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download.asp](http://www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download.asp)
   ![Screenshot of unfilled in serv/download.asp](http://f.cl.ly/items/3J2k2O05223Y1K2T0C43/District%20of%20Columbia%20%20Office%20of%20Campaign%20Finance%20%20Contribution%20%20%20Expenditure%20Search.png)
2. Fill in `From Date`, `To Date`, and `Payment Type`.
   ![Screenshot of filled in serv/download.asp](http://f.cl.ly/items/0T3N0O1I1W0A1t2W1t3N/District%20of%20Columbia%20%20Office%20of%20Campaign%20Finance%20%20Contribution%20%20%20Expenditure%20Search%20filled%20in.png)
3. Click `Submit` and it sends a `POST` to
   [www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download.asp](http://www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download.asp)
   and displays the entered form.
   ![Screenshot of submitted form](http://f.cl.ly/items/0Z3k1P2W0l1G2P080o2K/District%20of%20Columbia%20%20Office%20of%20Campaign%20Finance%20%20Contribution%20%20%20Expenditure%20Search%20submitted.png)
4. Click `Click here to download the CSV File` and it sends a `POST` to
   [www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download_conexp.asp](http://www.ocf.dc.gov/serv/download_conexp.asp)
5. Returns `POST` with CSV text.

### Automation
#### Selenium
At first I tried using
[Selenium with Python](http://selenium-python.readthedocs.org) to fill in
the forms and click the buttons. This will actually run a real(ish) browser
and execute all the the JS and simulate user input. This worked, but
it couldn't really handle the returned CSV text from step 5. In a browser
this opens in a new window and downloads to your computer, but the
[PhantomJS driver for Selenium and Python](http://www.realpython.com/blog/python/headless-selenium-testing-with-python-and-phantomjs/)
wasn't really working for that new window. I might have been able to get
it to work eventually, but it prompted me to search for a different approach.

#### Requests
I then started experimenting with
[Requests for Python](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest) to just
call the to just make the actual HTTP calls, instead of pretending to be a
human and filling in the form. This was 1) faster 2) less verbose 3) easier
to understand.

##### Chrome Dev Tools
I fired up my Chrome Dev Tools and looked at what requests
were being made. So I tried to figure out in step 4, what request was actually being sent,
so that I could replay it programatically. However, since that opened
in a new window, the Dev Tools didn't save the request.
![GIF of clicking on download button and it downloading in chrome](http://zippy.gfycat.com/PinkAccomplishedBuffalo.gif)
It [isn't possible](http://stackoverflow.com/a/13747562) with chrome
to open a new window with Dev Tools already open.

##### Chrome Net Internals
I then tried [chrome://net-internals/#events](chrome://net-internals/#events)
to see the actual HTTP request being processed. I could see it was sending
a `POST` to`/serv/download_conexp.asp`
and the returned CSV. However it didn't show the `POST` data or the
cookies.
![chrome net internals events showing POST](http://f.cl.ly/items/050P46040W3o2t30431M/Screen%20Shot%202014-06-15%20at%2012.54.33%20PM.png)

##### Charles
For that I found [Charles](http://www.charlesproxy.com/)
(`brew cask install charles`) which provides a HTTP proxy to run your web
traffic through and then you can inspect every request.

#### Cookie
I checked the `POST` headers for the request and tried making it myself.
I got a response of

```html
    <script language="javascript">
        alert("Your Session is expired. Please try again");
        opener.location.href="/serv/download.asp";
        window.close();
    </script>
```

I found that it was setting a cookie when I requested
`/serv/download.asp`. I first tried it with a cookie I got  from the browser
and IT WORKED! I got back the CSV.

So I began using
[Requests Sessions](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/user/advanced/#session-objects)
to first `GET` at `/serv/download.asp` to get a session cookie and then
`POST` to `/serv/download_conexp.asp` with that cookie. That didn't work,
I got the `Your Session is expired. Please try again` response.
So then I tried doing step 3, sending a `POST` to `/serv/download.asp` and then
the identical post to `/serve/download_conexp.asp`, thinking maybe the server
checked to see if I submitted the form before letting me download. It worked!
However the next day when I tried again I go the
`Your Session is expired. Please try again`. Very weird.
